everybody welcome it here on the land
please The Binding of Isaac after birth
plus we finished with the posted side of
grid mode at least absent the secret
characters on the last episode and I'm
happy about that we got a lot of dark
room stuff to do though we have a lot of
dr. boom stuff to do okay who is going
as asel is an option but we just had a
fast run I'd prefer to avoid that for
now
um I mean Maggie has some garbage ones
lined up I hate to do it cuz we just
played as Eve recently and I think
Samson just before that but it's - a
Samson run hard mode dark room we got
this we got this we're making progress
dude we've been ticking off the post it
note much like we tick off people when
we miss tinted rocks HZ SN c SW k it's a
curse run you know the rules no numbers
in the seed if you get a seed that's all
letters you know you're in for a tough
one the letters control the same the
numbers control good items we gonna see
that's all numbers show me I've never
seen it happen before I don't even know
if it's plausible I think the answer is
probably no but well it might be
possible try to think this I think they
use numbers only to know that's stupid I
was gonna say they use numbers only to
make letters unambiguous like using a
zero for an owl but I don't believe that
that's the case because what the heck is
seven is there a T is it an L is it an
si tu r da y night
it isn't Saturday night here it's Sunday
afternoon
nonetheless as much relevancy but I
needed some air to fill while we were in
that room with the most annoying enemies
on planet Earth because they're not even
difficult they're just annoying it's
like fighting the lost in XCOM
apparently my eggs come game is bugs I
know you might be watching this going I
don't want Jax come don't belabor the
point but okay
basically next come to war the chosen
there's a new faction zombies I got this
bug well I got first the enemies
completed a quote-unquote dark event
that makes it possible to have these
zombies show up on every mission then I
got a bug that never purged that event
from the queue so apparently I've just
stuck with like 80 zombies permission
forever it's like fighting a room full
of corn flies everything dies in 2 hits
they're not that much of a threat but
every once in a while one squeaks
through and makes you like lose all
self-confidence in your ability to play
video games we shall see though okay
there's a long trip to get to this item
room and it cost us it cost us big
Taurus is kind of bad right now but it
could be amazing in not too long yeah
yeah I can live with this this is
actually extremely good dark bummed from
our first deal with the devil we still
have a great chance of getting a deal
with the devil on the next floor ooh
don't get hit things are a little scary
there we go yeah we might need our next
red heart it's not really much we can do
on the shop we could always shoot fires
but in fact I think I'm going to but the
first red hearts I think belonged to me
four point five damage with an eleven
rate of fire definitely plausible to
defeat the boss without you know too
much hassle there but it depends on the
boss cuz our speed is also quite low as
well so uh honestly Ragman is normally
kind of a bad draw and our speed is low
enough that it's gonna be hard to dodge
the homing shots in a lot of situations
I think but our damage is high enough
that I think most of the time we're
gonna be taking out the spiders before
we can really do much to us and we take
out the spiders you know that it does
damage to him as well I think we got a
relatively okay draw and the halo is
just you know thought that creme de la
resistance that's not how it works the
piece de resistance the creme de la
creme alamode big good Oh fromage that
good baguette Alfre Maj like I said I'm
sort of french-canadian but like in name
alone but that's enough right many
people are probably gonna say no but
I've seen you
whenever the Olympics happen I went to a
school that was like the most
monocultural school you could possibly
imagine and we lived in the middle of
nowhere everybody was like from fourth
generation Canadians World Cup comes
around
oh all of a sudden you know I don't know
all of a sudden you know people are
wearing jerseys for like the Dutch
national team and yeah oh hey Nick I
didn't know you were Dutch and he's like
oh yeah my great great great grandfather
spent a weekend in Ghent once
oh isn't that in Belgium yeah but like
you know close enough right the national
pride always comes out when it's a it's
a sporting event internationally
especially if you have a tangential
relationship to a country that's
actually good
it's funny I saw a lot of people you
know we got a very thin familial thread
to like you know the Italian national
soccer team and I'm not insulting
anybody that fits in this boat by the
way oh jesus a problem like if Canada
went out in the Olympics on the hockey
side of things who would I cheer for
probably like Sweden I got no
relationship to Sweden just kind of
Sedin twins play for the Canucks I'm a
that's that's my level of of knowledge
they're my level of international
connection I suppose let's give this a
shot and see how it goes this should
also be completely fine we don't see a
lot of people who are like yeah it's the
World Cup and I'm like all of a sudden
I'm cheer for Cote d'Ivoire not that
they're even a bad team all of a sudden
I'm cheering for you know Albania it's
always the best team you got some
connection to maybe I'm overly
generalizing I don't know it's not like
they can wear a Canadian Jersey during
the World Cup will qualify for a world
cup of soccer since a year in 1986 also
it's called football I don't really want
to buy a red heart though I was hoping
to buy bombs oh it was a better value at
least we can always we can always hold
that close to us but
sadly Jarrah flies would have been great
as well I mean we just literally cannot
afford it but now if you could drop a
red heart I'd be fine with it I don't
know we're kind of in a weird spot like
it's not bad
we got the Halo or stats are good dark
bums fantastic our speed isn't even that
bad considering we have considering we
have tourists fortunately or
unfortunately we're probably doing
enough damage that tourists will very
rarely see the light of day unless our
speed gets a lot higher and plus we're
probably gonna see it on this room cuz
apparently I was just wrong about that
but get dusted and there's of course our
bomb basically I go from like an 80 to a
98 percent chance of winning this run
wow that was so bad in my head if we get
a red heart to drop so we can get a deal
with the devil on this floor now you
might be saying that's not plausible
next you've already taken red heart
damage you're not wrong I just I started
that dialogue before I had taken damage
on that room as much as it pains me to
say a bit of a whip there where are the
don't don't add me okay cuz I just
realized I am an actual moron
why don't you just use the lovers card
and get the spirit hearts you dummy
you're just holding on to it like it's
gonna appreciate in value what do you
think it is a player unknowns
battlegrounds crate there you go let's
let's talk about judging other people
more talk about like performing well I
don't want to blow up our donation
machine even if it might seem like the
right idea
I don't want to blow up our donation
machine it is an institution until it
gets to 999 it's innocent bad trip
that's not good cheers up is lovely
range up is lovely the tower is garbage
full help yeah okay dad hurt me deep in
my soul but at least we got two spirit
hearts out of it again not necessarily
knocking it out of the park on gameplay
here but due to the quality of our first
items it looks like we're probably gonna
be okay regardless so don't forget about
bombs why didn't you just I'm so linked
I'm out of touch in Isaac
right now why didn't we just use one of
our unlimited bombs to knock the the red
chest out instead of risking a spirit
heart the answer risk is I I forgot that
I had it which is not good it's really
banking on a speed upgrade there he said
we got a pretty sizable speed downgrade
so Taurus will continue to be a little
dubious in its usefulness but honestly I
think the fact that I've recognized
relatively early that I'm playing badly
will hopefully lead to me playing better
and that's not an excuse it's it's a cry
for help but think that hopefully we can
turn it around here we probably do want
to go back for blank card
you know garbage speed or not garbage
speed great bit of damage right there a
very productive use of our limited
resources although we got a lot of red
hearts on this floor excuse me sir
thank you
well we could always use the pony please
to walk backwards to the shop and
that'll help us out in terms of giving
us a little speed but actually now that
I think about it what's our speed with
the pony it's gonna start at 1.2 I'll
take it it's so much worse than blank
card but it does give us a leg up on
making unmaking tourists pop so I'm
gonna go with it and you're gonna say
this is an idiotic decision and you may
well be correct in your assessment it
also gives us the money or at least
saves us the money that we already had
kept there and I think if we can get
like to speed upgrades and just get
tourists to pop constantly this will be
worth it as of right now it looks like a
terrible decision though I'll admit
hermit card a blood bank is of course
another important thing and if we get a
an IV bag we'll probably just end up
rolling with dad as long as we can keep
our red hearts up there at least but
let's just give it a second but pop
probably a demon judgement is the first
priority here okay there's our first
speed upgrade and a health upgrade along
with it as well that's really good
that's another speed upgrade all of a
sudden this Pony decision is actually
sort of worked out there's another speed
upgrade that one didn't count for some
reason oh just Taurus like cap your
speed or maybe our speed got capped by
experimental treatment being kind of bad
for us I don't know get out of there it
was worth it well worth it actually sure
hermit is like free boss rush so it's
not a huge deal right now though
[Music]
come on dude come on this is getting a
little absurd I'm actually just using
the chariot because I want to get it off
the grounds you got me you got me I knew
he had me he didn't have me you never
even had your car so we did miss out on
the boss trap room as a result but very
little to complain about there I'm gonna
complain about my brain being like
wicked slow right now for whatever
reason but again hopefully once we work
the cobwebs out here we can have a
stronger run cuz I'm pleased with where
the run is standing I'm not that pleased
with the way that the the damage has
come in so far it's been very very
sloppy play in the same way like I don't
mind a loss as long as we play well I'm
not that titillated by a win even when
just because we played like garbage so
I'd prefer to kind of get it all under
control here I'll go deep on this deal
with the devil I mean we just got to HP
from the floor so start working on the
gup-e dream still got three HP left as
is the pact is well we're thinking in
the worst of times and I'll accept as
well blank card would have been pretty
interesting with that dice shard
so take telepathy for dummies oh we
don't need the pony anymore it's better
than telepathy for dummies so we'll
that'll lower our rate of fire but I
think we can afford to get a little more
audacious with our plays here now that
we're capped at 1.5 speed we can pretty
much go with whatever we want for a
space bar item
sure why not
so the glowing hourglass will eventually
become the hourglass what if we used
glowing hourglass for in the past to
rewind time so you don't get hit by
enemies and lose your deal with the
devil chance probably not too likely to
happen here to possibly have a different
item show up after a boss fight although
I'm thinking to myself right now that's
not how this works the items are
actually programmed by the scene so I
don't know well we'll figure it out I do
remember that after like three uses it
becomes the normal hourglass again which
is pretty silly but that implies there
must be some kind of like incredible
power contained within it right I knew
that at one point I had a handle on this
item
mm maybe we should have gotten mom's
perfume because that would have maybe
allowed us to benefit a little further
from the torn photo although I don't
think so it's a danger when you hit like
the stat caps really quickly as I think
we have here because now I find myself
like looking like a moron and I'd should
look like a moron for some of the plays
that I made earlier but I want to be
rightly held as a moron for the moronic
decisions I've made not wrongly held as
a moron for not understanding the finer
points of you know stat caps and the
details therein
I do enough stupid things in this game
then I can oh that's pretty good
although the tears up might not affect
us again well it does this time although
your mileage may vary on that discourse
did a range downgrade might be either
way though uh pretty solid I mean again
it's it's a run that whether or not it
deserves it it's in a very very strong
position right now and we should really
try for everything unfortunately
everything in this case basically comes
down to definitely make sure that you go
to the dark room and if you see dad's
key take it apart from that we don't
really need anything else or we can't
really benefit from anything else on the
post-it note at least what if you could
use it now we're not gonna get dad's key
on the chest because we're not going to
the chest I was thinking if you could
use it to rear all the items in the
chest but I'm assuming they're
controlled by the seat as well so I
don't know maybe maybe if Krampus gives
us Krampus his head will try to re-roll
it
I know myself too well I am gonna be
holding on to this item with full
charges until the end of time let's go
back for a second you know this is where
I'm gonna let myself stand on the
shoulders of giants blowing our glass
Isaac okay
notes synergies pawn usage Isaac will be
returned to the previous room and
everything that happened in the current
room will be undone certain consumables
do not get rescored health bombs coins
keys items and trinkets will be restored
donations to the donation machine are
not reverted and they can be reset into
working state once jammed okay that
seems interesting 48 hour energy pill
allows for infinite usage as the pill
gets refunded upon use sharp plug allows
for infinite usage as long as you have
more than two hearts
kirsta the tower if used quickly after
taking damaged
troll bombs will spawn in the previous
room if you have safety scissors these
will be harnessed as normal dude I don't
know I feel like I'm in over my head
here how about this with curse of the
blind glowing our glass can be used to
pick up or purchase an unknown item to
see what it is then decide whether or
not to undo picking it up that's more my
speed you know you guys are giving me
these PhD lessons in the binding of
issac afterbirth Plus and I'm choosing
to willfully remain ignorant and then
turn it back on you as if somehow it's
your fault but to be honest with you who
needs to harvest infinite bombs one in
like 1500 runs when the synergy is
possible it might happen dude here's our
chance
odd mushroom it's actually a good idea
not to take it because it just lowers
our damage because our rate of fire is
already at the camp dude look at that we
actually used it effectively thanks
binding of issac wiki I never would have
expected that immediately after learning
what it does we would be able to put it
to the test it's like it's too much of
an engineered environment I'm very happy
ok so it's extremely important by the
way don't get distracted
something-something you know the
Undertaker mankind etc etc but in our
notes most important thing take the
negative when you beat mom which is the
item on the rights you don't need to
overthink it
this room if you give me shoopdawhoop
all tanky because we just as far as I'm
concerned I just made my best glowing
hourglass play ever thank you you're a
gentleman and or a scholar let us go we
got the time honestly I would take IV
bag then we can make good use of it
pretty good if nothing else at least
we're getting more damage for this floor
which if we end up doing boss rush is a
big how because you've already done hush
yes we could also do delirium I guess I
I acted as if nice also pretty good but
I acted as if only mega Satan was a
possible outcome for us but we have
never done
delirium on this character Samson so
we're able to get the portal which is
largely luck although we could will it
into existence by going to the hush but
I don't want to do that I want to defeat
I want to defeat the lamb so I can get
the post-it note filled in and then go
down to the Delirium floor but
I digress how in the world are you not
dead tanky as bosses in the game would
be dead from a treatment like that at
this point by the way we got 14 damage
four rate of fire shoopdawhoop it's a
pretty ideal time to try - wow it's a
pretty ideal time to try to go to greed
mode in my brain what is you doing it's
an ideal time to go to boss rush I think
even if we don't know what any of the
items are so I'm actually gonna era this
right here got a two of clubs basically
we got a tool club's not particularly
strong take the item on the rights go to
boss rush take the item in the top left
linger beam this was not worth the time
investment but life goes on who knows
the item at the end of this could be
worth the time investment sure we could
have used glowing hourglass to avoid
this but shoopdawhoop is gonna like
stomp on so many of these enemies that
you know what it's going fast enough
that linger beam may well have been
worth the time investment I may have
been incorrect in my assessment even if
it's not a particularly strong item
turns out 14.8 damage times two times
the number of ticks in the duration of
shoopdawhoop is a relatively good
motivator for bosses to get the heck out
of the way of this astral plane before
they go insane
more enemies that spawn in at the same
time and then stand still please
turns out that's a pretty easy strat for
us to take advantage of we haven't had a
huge stop like this on boss rush in a
while like you need it there's only a
few items in the game that really really
allow you to poop on enemies during boss
try shoopdawhoop is definitely one of
them
I mean shoopdawhoop actually just
obliterated the fallin before it even
entered its second stage which to be
honest with you I actually didn't know
was possible even though I've probably
seen it like 20 times
I don't feel too bad about getting rid
of blank card we could have had 99 bombs
what if we gave you 99 of these it's me
holding up my middle finger I'm just
joking I would never do that I'm a
respectful boy I'd wait til you had your
back turn and then I do the sucka
gesture from the Generation X
Wow
Taurus it's doing business for us I'm
never sad to pick up Taurus well that's
not true there have been a couple of
times it's cost me when I run I still I
do it knowingly you know there was a
period probably like two years ago even
where I didn't even realize that Taurus
was a speed downgrade now I'm well aware
of the consequences I just usually
choose to try to absorb them instead of
just abstaining
I like the invincibility from Taurus and
if we can get to two speed which again I
don't really understand why we can't I
don't understand why we're camped I
guess I'd be I'd be a little happier but
you keep taking those tears like instant
invincibility is really good although
you know as soon as I got instant
invincibility I'd probably be like my
tears there's more damage our actual
damage is not that good on any floor
where we're able to find a blood bank we
can get to a very dominating strategy
you know we can get to 14 damage plus if
we can't find a blood bank and we're not
in the business of taking unreasonable
amounts of damage it's a little bit more
of a stretch you know I think we've been
hit once here so we probably have five
damage it's well over based damage but
not that good for the womb it's our rate
of fire that's carrying us to be honest
with you and then you know lump of coal
probably doesn't hurt crickets body
doesn't hurt
and dark bum giving us five spirit arts
per floor doesn't hurt either help me
help me there we go um chariots perfect
for a blood bank and there's a chance we
could get one on the next floor I might
just use it on the boss though we got a
good deal with the devil chance two
items away from becoming guppy already
fought Krampus it's like the golden zone
for us to to get a quick deal with the
devil and then just steamroll my knock
back actually knocked that enemy into me
it's like some mr. bean level nonsense
okay teratoma get absolutely dusty will
save chariot we got our own built-in
chariot if we need it No Deal you insult
me sir at least we have a hundred
percent on the next floor but it hurts
it's hard not to be offended is in my
head sixty seven percent might as well
be a hundred explains my GPA you know
what kid it is sixty seven percent is an
a now I'm becoming like a self
caricature sixty seven percent is not an
A in Canada but we also don't internet
been over this a hundred times we don't
use the GPA system that much we tend to
use that we can make it we tend to use
numerical averages because I don't
understand America's always got to
complicate things now we can't have the
metric system we got to have our own
system Oh what's what's your GPA I don't
know what an GPA is you know we just use
the numbers that we get out of a hundred
you use the numbers what are you convert
the numbers to a an arbitrary series of
letters and then convert the letters
back into an arbitrary ratio of numbers
it's it's just too much I don't
understand it
nothing said can't be that simple it's
like we got someone on the inside trying
to you know be a job creator someone's
got to be at work at the GPA calculator
what's your GPA oh I've got a three
point nine nine nine one three four five
because although I got a b-minus in
freshman year Jim I did take an IB
quantum physics class
so hopefully Harvard doesn't hold it
against me I don't get it okay
it could be so much simpler I'm getting
on my soapbox I don't even understand
what I'm talking about
I just get cheese cuz I'm like in Canada
at least in yeah well let's make it
exciting right in in the province where
I grew up at least an a you pass it
fifty and an a is eighty to ninety nine
an a-plus and ninety six or whatever but
um and then everyone goes well you went
to like a bad school how do you know
it's the number one most presumptuous
thing I've ever heard in my life yeah we
got bad doctors cuz they pass in fifty
I'll tell you one thing if we got bad
doctors you got terrible doctors cuz all
our doctors go over there cuz they can
make more money you're inheriting our
bad doctors don't sound so smug about it
thing is you're competing against people
not who have AIDS come on you're
competing against people who have you
know 86 is there 90 ones it's not a GPA
based system I think all almost went
down to the wrong floor but I've been
over this so many times I don't care to
talk about it again even though I've
wilfully chose to nothing there so we're
mildly diced up right now we don't need
that anymore because we're out of we're
out of red hearts but we're mildly
spiced up I should say this run
shouldn't be too hard and keep in mind
you know child's hard dark bomb good
combination the first floor
teleportation of the deal with the devil
is paying dividends for us wrapping
around here I guess I couldn't I
wouldn't help myself though if I was if
I was a young whippersnapper still to
this day and I was talking to someone
that was from like you know Finland and
they were like in Finland a
forty-percent is a pass I'd be like you
guys must be stupid up there in my head
outwardly I'd be like that's an inferior
system because I've grown up on this one
my whole life and I'm used to it it's
not like you know if someone gets a 50%
in ninth grade
you know geography we go oh that guy is
a smart guy you still go that guy got a
50 that's not a good mark they just
happen to get course credit I have taken
some college classes that I find
hilarious if you want to make fun of
something about the Canadian education
system and I think there's something to
be made fun of them probably in every
country's education system
oh no but the thing that's funny is that
so I'm in like I don't know if you knew
this but take some classes in the
computer science field the classes some
of them have a 50% passing grade but if
you don't get a 60 or higher you can't
take the next course in the track so
conceivably you could pass a class but
not have passed it well enough that the
the Dean could just be like well you get
the credit but you also have to trance
or to some other program which i think
is hilarious
now I don't dispute the idea that you
know if you don't understand computer
science 101 at a 60% or greater level
you're probably gonna struggle in
computer science you know 463 however I
do feel for the people who find
themselves in that awkward you know 50
to 59 range got to retake the course
especially cuz like this is not to say a
lot of the people watching this don't
stand there a lot of the people watching
this are younger than myself and you
know if you're going through college
you're going through universities for
the first time you know you're like 18
to 22 I'm not saying you got nothing
going on in your life that could
possibly take interest over school but
I'm in night classes now and sometimes
I'll talk to like my lab partner and be
like he'll be like oh hey I didn't do so
well on the lab and I bet Oh what
happened he's like oh you know my kid is
sick and I'm like yeah well that's a
great excuse I feel for the people that
get mega burn like that but you know
it's also what are you gonna do you do
have to test people give me dad's keys
somehow when I was in college
oh why didn't you do well on the
assignment didn't feel like it when it
saw a movie instead I can relate to that
I've been there
why didn't you come to class yesterday
it was early I've been that guy I'm not
looking down on you that's why my number
one advice to you whenever you know
every August September I start being
preachy about school which apparently
you know is happening literally right
now I bring up the fact sometimes people
you know tweet me or even send me an
email and goal again LM starting college
in September what advice would you give
me number one piece of advice go to
class you or someone you love is paying
for it even if you got a full
scholarship what you don't love the
government they're paying for your
college you better love them it might
not be the government paying it might be
the kind round foundation for all I know
anyway the point is go to class you're
paying for it but you know have fun as
well find yourself cultivate a good
sleep schedule so you don't end up to
being a youtuber not sure if that's
enough if that's a threat or a benefit
but well let's do a s wot analysis to
figure out yeah I've taken intro to
marketing what of it I'm pretty much a
financial genius check it out
I took econ 101 the first year
introductory economics class by
correspondence that's right I got my
online credit in first year economics
you ever hear of a little thing called
supply and demand me too
a bit of a sloppy run here I got it I
gotta admit let's finish this bad boy
off I actually at this point that's
gonna I kinda hope we're not gonna get
delirium because I don't trust ourselves
to make it through it that was just a
terrible missplay right there um maybe
we should just Bank the fact that we're
likely about to win not do a victory lap
yet no delirium exes do you only get
delirium after the chest I don't know
anyway we all like blood rites in
Samson's lock both useful items blood
rights I don't respect as much as I
probably should
Samson's lock kind of in the same boat
but one more thing ticked off the
post-it note for now thanks for watching
hope you guys have enjoyed the episode
if you did click the like button helps
out a great deal of course subscribe you
wanna see more the future but for now
thanks for watching and I will see you
next time